What percentage of the students at UT agreed with
your views, do you think?
Oh, I would say any, oh goodness, I would probably
tend to estimate too high. But there was usually a
pretty sharp line drawn between, if you were
associated in any way with a fraternity or
sorority, first of all, you were just considered
dead meat. But those people didn't go along with
it. But that's okay because we never saw them. They
were too busy going to their little formals and
semi-formals, and we were too busy making
horrendous fun of them.
These were the people who wore nylons and heels and
preppy-type attire at a time when most people were
wearing faded jeans with holes in them and baggy
shirts and no bra, so you can imagine. But I would
say probably a good... 70 to 80% of the students at
the University of Texas at the time. And that might
be high, though, but it's just that everybody I
knew and associated with supported it. So it seems
to me that it was high. I'm not sure actually of the
figure, though.
Why do you think SDS fell apart as a national
organization? Boy, because they started getting
really violent. And the disruptive services that
we were doing were one thing, but the actual
bombing of selective service offices, and
of course there was a tragic accident where some
SDS members were involved in making a bomb and it
blew up in the basement of the home and killed three
of the guys. I guess that sort of started hitting,
hey, what we're doing is really deadly. People can
really get hurt. I mean, it's one thing to cut
telephone lines to the draft board or the
Selective Service Agency or to cause phone lines
to go out on college campuses or just to generally
harass people. But when you start really talking
about people dying and getting hurt and...
putting bombs on trains that were carrying
military supplies and trying to disrupt, going
onto military bases and trying to blow up arsenals
and
deploy or transports to Vietnam. And even there
was talk of blowing up various senators and House
of Representatives members' homes and
kidnapping of children. It just got so splintered
that it became an organization. The Weathermen
became an organization of people who were really,
at least for me, they wanted to do things that were
much more violent than I was into. I did not want...
I did not want to see anybody murdered or killed or
seriously hurt. I mean, if I could call someone
public embarrassment and shame them or expose
them for what they were doing, that was one thing.
But to actually call somebody physical or body
harm, uh-uh. That's why it fell apart for me.
Okay, what were some of the accomplishments of
SDS?
Well, at the University of Texas, and that was the
only place I was involved with it, I think we were
very successful in making people aware that you
could use more than peaceful demonstration to get
your point across and that people, especially
people in administrative positions, responded
to... the type of activities that I've mentioned
before that we were involved in a whole lot more
speedily than they did with just a whole bunch of
kids sitting out on the greenways or the or the
college campuses chanting, you know, hell no, we
won't go. If you could actually get into a building
and take over the dean's office or make an uproar
like this, then you got the media called in. And now
the University of Texas is on national TV and
parents are saying, wait a minute, we don't want
our kids to go there. So it was much more... It
brought about much quicker results and
responses. We didn't, you know, it wasn't just a
bunch of, oh, aren't they sweet? Look at those kids
sitting out by the trees, singing and chanting
their little anti-war songs. Okay, well, they'll
go away when they get hungry. You know, this was,
you know, let's do something else. So I do think we
brought a... The university administration
seemed to respond much more readily when they
thought that damage or disruption was going to
occur than if they thought it was just pure
peaceful marches.
What did it mean to be a radical, or could you define
a radical in the time?
Well, I guess there were various levels of
radicals, but a real radical
was someone who...
Jane Fonda was a radical. She went to Hanoi.
She said she regrets it. I think that's a
political... That was a pretty radical thing to
do, to go to Hanoi and talk to the Vietnamese and
take pictures smiling arm in arm with the
Vietnamese. That was radical.
To my parents, radical meant people who shouted
against the government and caused a scene.
Anybody that caused a scene. My mother, that was
her great fear that I was going to cause a scene,
which I was involved in many scenes. But that just
wasn't ladylike. A radical was somebody who
departed from what, and I guess it depends on who
was calling you a radical. That was in the eye of the
beholder. I mean, I wasn't a radical to my friends.
They felt the same way. Somebody radical to us
would have been a Green Beret or a Marine. He was
radical. But I'm sure we were radical to him. At the
time, a radical was somebody who felt much like the
people, probably, who established the original
colonies and wanted to overthrow the English
government. Those were considered radicals over
in the House of Parliament. And I'm sure we were
considered radicals by the powers that be here
because we wanted an overthrow of the way things
were being done.
What were your feelings towards Texas A&M at the
time?
Those people were from another planet. They were
so out of what was going on. They just had... I mean,
when people said Texas A&M, we envisioned... a
bunch of Marines and farmers, or a combination of
the two. People who were just so incapable of any
independent thinking, who were just going to go
right along. The only solace we took in the fact was
that most of them were being drafted so quickly
that we knew they'd be killed. And that perhaps all
that thinking would just be slaughtered on the
fields over in Vietnam. And it was best that these
people hopefully not reproduce before they left.
and leave behind widows and children who might
carry on this belief. And we truly hope that they
did not think they were fighting for us because we
didn't want them to fight for us. We wanted them not
to go. We really felt that if people, if the young
men just burned their death cards and said, you
want to fight a war? That politician, you go there
and get it done and you fight it. But here were these
little A&M people watching information, you
know, and drilling every morning and just dying to
get over there. We waved goodbye.
When did the 60s end?
Hmm.
The 60s ended for me in 1971. I
left the United States
thinking it was for good, and went over to Israel.
And more or less just sort of deliberately
lost touch. I didn't want to know anything that was
going on. When I came back in 70, excuse me, I went
over in late 1970 and came back over in 72,
When I returned to the United States, back to
Austin, it was like the 60s just hadn't even
existed. People were walking to classes. People
were going to classes. Your professors expected
you in class.
It was a whole different scene.
I might add, when I went to Israel, my father felt
that was the place I belonged. My parents were not
Jewish. My husband at the time was Jewish. So I
guess I lived up to some of their expectations. But
a lot of the 60s moved what was blamed on Jews. And it
was felt that a lot of Abby Hoffman, Jerry Rubin,
And these people, that Jews were behind a lot of the
black civil rights movement, too. That the blacks
were banned, or the Jewish people were standing
behind the blacks in their rights movements. And
that Jews stood something to gain by claiming that
the blacks were persecuted because they had been
persecuted, too. And for a long time, there was a
pretty tight between the blacks and the Jews, but
I've seen that erode over the years. Because I
think the blacks realize they've been used by the
Jews.
But who hasn't? Do you consider yourself a
liberated woman?
Why, yes. Certainly more than anything else.
Could you define it? I do not need a man to identify
myself. I do not need a man to be happy. I am as
capable of... If someone told me I could either
take
If I was going to be stranded on a desert island or a
deserted island for the rest of my life and someone
said, you can either take good books or a good man,
I'd take the books. I think I'd enjoy them a lot
longer. I think I wouldn't have to do any laundry or
cook if I didn't feel like it. You can use them again
and again. The older I get, the happier I am that
that somewhere along the way I distanced myself
emotionally from men. Even the most sensitive,
liberated men I knew mostly gave lip service to
women and their causes.
The division between the sexes, I don't think it's
really narrowed that much, but I know best that
that I can, I enjoy the company of men, and I enjoy
sex with men, and I'm not gay, if I were it wouldn't
bother me to tell you that I was, but I'm not gay, and
I do enjoy sex with men, but I think I'm able to enjoy
it without wanting or needing any commitment, I
don't feel that I am bound by something that would
have bound my mother, which is the sanctity of
marriage. I don't think that people are meant to be
monogamous. I don't think it's normal or natural.
I don't expect it from myself or from others. I
would never feel betrayed if the man I was with had
sex with someone else. I think that's a television
and movie hype when people freak out over that.
Because I think most people who have been involved
in relationships for any time know that not all of
us are like Jimmy Carter and lust only in our
hearts. I'm a person who has to experience a lot of
things. I need a lot of stimuli. And I'm not going to
deny myself...
just because some religion or some social norm
thinks that's what I should do. And I guess that's
what I mean by being liberated. I do my thinking for
myself. It doesn't come out of a prayer book, and it
doesn't come on the dictates of what society tells
me a good woman and a good wife should be.
Did being in SDS have any impact on the increase in
women's liberation? Well, I think for me it did.
Because as I mentioned earlier, sex was a big part
of the 60s. And the men in SDS really expected as
part of your deal that you would be very open
sexually, you know. In order for me to have sex with
someone, I have to be attracted to that person, and
I'm not going to have sex with you just because it's
the thing to do that you happen to think it's the
thing to do. But even in SDS at the time, as I look
back on it, women's role in the SDS was pretty much
just the old vessel. I mean, you were there to rub
their backs and to... oh you could make a few
speeches you know because after all they were
supposed to be open-minded and liberal but uh it
was more like you were tolerated when i look back on
it you were uh you were seen as a necessary evil you
know yeah yeah we gotta let her speak for a while but
then we can get to one of us important men they seem
to be very headstrong they seem to know exactly
what they wanted and I haven't had one guy write
something that he wanted me to say. And I said, I can
write my own speeches. And he was like, no, no, no.
We don't want you to get emotional. I just remember
thinking, what in the world? How do you feel about
our government today?
Our government today? Whose government? How can
you even use the word our? We don't have an our
government. There is no our government. It's
still the government of the rich protecting the
rich. Our government. Do you think our government
serves women and men and blacks and Chicanos and
Asians? I mean, what a joke. Our government. I can
hardly even deal with this question because I
don't know what you mean by our government. If you
mean how do I feel about the government of the
United States and comparing it with the 60s, then I
don't see much change. People have become
disillusioned. It seems like the only Kennedy
left is You know, the one they decided not to
politically assassinate is the one that was the
most intellectually harmless.
I don't see that. I think it's just as corrupt and
as... When you cannot have a... person elected to
the Supreme Court of the United States because it
was reported that he smoked marijuana in college.
I think that is so hypocritical that I hardly know
how to deal with it. I mean, most people are elected
to government based on the amount of money they can
spend in the campaign. Our
government is still a big popularity contest on a
lot of levels. name recognition most people don't
even know who they vote for most people don't even
vote for our government how do i feel about our
government i don't feel like it's my government i
don't feel like it's your government i think
they've got a real good sham going i suppose but
people don't really put much stock in the
government sometimes i wonder who really does run
the country i mean we know it's not the president
That might be interesting
to explore. What were your feelings on Richard
Nixon? Richard Nixon and I shared the same date of
birth as far as January 9th went. And every January
9th for years, my birthday was ruined by watching
Nixon blow out his candles on TV while I was trying
to celebrate it with my SDS and free love, free sex,
free drugs society group of people. Nixon was a
jerk. And it's just a shame that it wasn't until
1973 that the rest of the people came to know what a
lying scum bucket he really was. I sometimes
wondered how all those people from A&M who went off
to bleed and die for this guy felt about seeing him
exposed on such a level. Although the general
sentiment of the people was Nixon hadn't done
anything that anybody else hadn't done. Nixon had
only gotten caught. So if that doesn't make more of
a statement on our government, whereas people
weren't really surprised that this had gone on in
our Watergate, no, that's no big shock. He hadn't
done anything that wrong, but how could he be so
stupid as to get caught?
Do you feel the Middle East crisis today compares
with the Vietnam War, and if so, how?
Not yet, but I think that it has the potential to. On
the front page of this morning, November 17th,
1990, Houston Chronicle, there's a headline that
says that major involvement in the Middle East
crisis could lead to campus disrest or unrest. And
that's like a first little signal. I thought to
myself, I should cut this out and save this.
Because if it does escalate, it would be an
interesting headline to keep. I think it's there.
The problem is how much the government,
our government,
can convince people that our welfare is tied into
our keeping the resources of the Middle East in
line. They've got us all believing that we need
that Mideast oil to pollute our place. So I guess it
just depends. We were in Vietnam strictly to keep
democracy or to police the democratic process,
supposedly. We're not in the Middle East under
those auspices. We're in the Middle East to
protect our oil rights. I guess we're there for the
money. And it's the first word that we're going to
be admittedly there for financial reasons alone.
This ought to be an interesting one, because the
wealthy really stand to gain from this, and the
poor just stand to bleed some more.
Do you think a peace movement today, if it came to
that, would be possible?
I don't think so because your generation has been
raised or reared on a steady diet of violence. The
TV, the movies, your music, it's extremely
violent in nature. Whereas we watch things, big
movies at our time were The Endless Summer or What
was another big movie back then? I can't even
think. Well, then the summer will do. You've grown
up on Robocop and The Avenger and Mad Max, and even
your cartoons are so violent. It's an age where we
have teenagers in wealthy societies Killing
other teenagers for car stereos and where people
are killed just because somebody else wants to see
what it looks like to see someone die. Or cases
where during sex other people choke. Your partner
might just decide he wants to choke you to death.
See what that's like. The drugs that you're
involved in. people are willing to take these
manufactured drugs just for the high when they
don't even have any idea what's in those drugs
marijuana is just not enough it's you're looking
for drugs that produce and by you i mean that
particular generation that produce violent
reactions hallucinogenic reactions that just
throw your body so out of kilter and out of sync that
people don't even really realize what they're
doing under the influence. Under marijuana, you
don't feel violent. You feel laid back. Under a lot
of these acids, people get so hyper and so...
People get so schizoid and freaky that... And
cocaine, imagine that. Talk about just a sheer
rush high. You can't be doing it for the effect
because the effect is too short-lived. I mean,
it's not just a nice way to kick back and enjoy a
Friday evening.
No, I don't think you could have a peace movement
because you haven't been, you're not steeped in
peace and a peaceful approach to things. You want
to blow it up, shoot it up, destroy it.
Lately with the resurgence of the Vietnam War and
all of the films that were showing how the Vietnam
War veteran was so maligned and mistreated, Burn
on the Fourth of July, Platoon,
Hamburger Hill, whatever these movies were, I
think It's also made young people today more aware
of what a screwed up war that was and how we really
had no place over there and even the soldiers came
to believe it so that young men getting ready to go
off to the Mideast today are probably going to cast
a pretty jaundiced eye towards an American
involvement in a place that really doesn't or who
they feel we really shouldn't be. And I don't think
they will just be very content to peacefully march
around and say, hell no, we won't go. I think that's
why the government's not so quick to push it. And
also the parents now of many of those people in the
60s have young sons and daughters who would be
required to go. And I think the government knows
that... The parents wouldn't support that. I
don't think people in my generation, I have a
17-year-old son, I don't want him to go. I would
advise him not to go. And
even parents, fathers or mothers who were over in
Vietnam know or came to realize that that was
really a war
that Americans should have stayed out of. And they
probably wouldn't want their sons over there. So
either the government's going to have to come up
with another real sneaky thing like Pearl Harbor
to incite American support over there, which is
really a scary but not unbelievable thought.
or they're not going to have the support they need
for that war. So I think we should all be thinking
right now, what are they going to do to incite us to
want to go over there?